# Additional Notes

This section describes some additional notes regarding the framework.

<br />

## Framework Options

The following options are available for the framework:

| Name | Type | Default | Notes |
| - | - | - | - |
| _Framework Specific_ | | | |
| `port` | `number` | `3000` | N/A |
| `hostname` | `string` | `localhost` | N/A |
| _Database Specific_ | | | |
| `db_enable` | `boolean` | `false` | N/A |
| `db_database` | `string` | `rewyre-application` | N/A |
| `db_authenticate` | `boolean` | `false` | N/A |
| `db_hostname` | `string` | `localhost` | N/A |
| `db_port` | `number` | `27017` | N/A |
| `db_username` | `string` | `undefined` | N/A |
| `db_password` | `string` | `undefined` | N/A |
| _WebSocket Specific_ | | | |
| `ws_enable` | `boolean` | `false` | N/A |
| `ws_path` | `string` | `/ws` | N/A |
| `ws_access` | `string ['full' | 'partial']` | `full` | N/A |
| _State Specific_ | | | |
| `state_flush_period` | `number` | `30` | Seconds |
| `state_storage_type` | `string ['database' | 'file']` | `file` | N/A |
| _Additional Options_ | | | |
| `enable_audit` | `boolean` | `false` | Not Implemented |
| `enable_debug` | `boolean` | `false` | Not Implemented |

<br />

## Extending Functionality

We say to extend the classes to make sure the functionality is all created properly, but you can either create your own base classes that extend the abstract class, or you will need to implement all the properties. In the demo you can see that I extend the controller class, still extending the `AbstractController` but I add my own code in as well, then I all the controllers I need to have the mustache support will extend the custom class, this works perfectly well. When it comes to the service, I suggest you implement the IService from the `rewyre` package as this defines the execute function for the service, and as new functionality get's added type errors will be more apparent.

<br />

## Global State

The global state, is an accessible dot notation lookup module for all models, controllers, providers and services, the state is loaded in memory and **periodically flushed** to the database or file every **30 seconds** by default, this can be amended within the framework configuration. If you want to increase then, please be aware that of course flushing quicker could slow down the database database depending on the size of the state.

### Retrieving Data

The state is a single object that uses a dot-notation lookup, for example, say this is your state:

```javascript
{
	sessions: {
		'8a7ea2ae': {
			token: '842b8e8a-8fcd-4f5c-824a-4ca26b211ef3',
			name: 'John Doe',
			email: 'john.doe@example.com',
			position: 'Manager',
		},
		'42930374': {
			token: 'dc616743-59bc-4ab9-81ed-ce90258030b9',
			name: 'Thomas Smith',
			email: 'thomas.smith@example.com',
			position: 'Developer',
		},
		'b66f6b89': {
			token: '3775b9ba-4a02-4fa3-8e0c-27ffade615eb',
			name: 'Adam Jones',
			email: 'adam.jones@example.com',
			position: 'DevOps',
		},
	}
}
```

You can in any method of a `controller`, `service`, `model` or `provider` call the following to access for example Thomas's email:

> **IMPORTANT** The state is injected into the class at runtime, therefore, to enable type hinting and prevent type errors, you will need to create a property in your controller, service, provider or model that defines the state, like so: `protected state!: State;` and make sure to import `State` from the `rewyre` package.

```typescript
const email: string = this.state.get('sessions.42930374.email');
```

The above will resolve to that section, if something is missing, it will throw an error, so be prepared to catch it. The dot-notation is a clean way of accessing data, if you want to directly access it then you can do:

```typescript
const email: string = this.state.getStateObject().sessions['42930374'].email;
```

But we suggest using the dot-notation for a cleaner and easier developing experience, but it's all down to personal preference.

<br />

### Inserting Data

To insert new data, this is the same concept, you can either apply it directly to the `this.state.getStateObject()` response, or you can do:

```typescript
this.state.set('sessions.6ac2c81b', {
	token: 'fb1bfd92-6244-4850-968d-b8b012d9dff3',
	name: 'Sarah Smith',
	email: 'sarah.smith@example.com',
	position: 'Human Resources',
});
```

Or to set a specific field:

```typescript
this.state.set('sessions.42930374.email', 'thomas.smith2@example.com');
```

> **IMPORTANT** If the dot notation goes to a property that does not exist,it will throw an error, so make sure to create the object before trying to access it.

<br />

## Rewyre Exports

The framework exports ALL data, so if you plan to take the rewyre functionality and build on-top of it, then you can import and extend all of the classes, all classes are built using protected properties, therefore any extended classes can access them.

<br />

## Plugins

Currently plugins are still not built in, but I have a few ideas for creating a plugin event manager that allows the user to listen to events, and then also the ability to inject, additional models, controllers, services and providers using a plugin, this will be drafted in the coming weeks and created as an issue in the github project. If you have specific needs then please let me know.

<hr style="height: 0; border: none; border-bottom: 2px solid white; padding-top: 15px;" />
<a href="https://github.com/dannysmc95/rewyre/blob/master/docs/7.AddWebSockets.md" style="display: block; text-align: left; float: left;">Previous (Adding WebSocket Support)</a>